README.md, before:

# vcpkg-cpack

Generator of binary installers using [CPack](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.5/module/CPack.html) for libraries built by [vcpkg](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg),  alpha version, may still contain bugs. 

Note that it is possible to created binary installer using the [export option](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/vcpkg#export_binaries_per_project) of vcpkg, but using CPack 
gives more freedom in customizing the installer, such as adding pre and post install scripts. 

## Usage
This repo contains a CMake project that be configured to generated arbitrary installers. 

In particular one can set the following CMake variables to customize the behaviour of the generated installer. 
The following variables are vcpkg-cpack specific: 

| CMake variable | Description         | 
|:--------------:|:-------------------:|
| `VCPKG_ROOT_DIR` | Directory containing the vcpkg installation. | 
| `VCPKG_CPACK_TARGET_PORTS` | CMake list (;-separated string) of vcpkg ports to include in the installer. If not present, add all the ports contained in the vcpkg installation. | 
| `VCPKG_CPACK_TARGET_TRIPLETS` |  CMake list (;-separated string) of vcpkg triplets to include in the installer. |
| `VCPKG_CPACK_IFW_CREATE_ONLINE_INSTALLER` | If using the IFW generator, create an online installer. | 

The other variables are common CPack variables, including:
 
| CMake variable |
|:--------------:|
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_NAME` | 
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VENDOR` |
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_DESCRIPTION_SUMMARY` | 
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_MAJOR` | 
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_MINOR` | 
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_PATCH` | 
| `CPACK_GENERATOR` | 

For a complete list and description of CPack options, check https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.5/module/CPack.html . 
Note that at the moment only the `IFW` and `ZIP` have been tested. 

For reproducibility, it is often convenient to store all this option in a [initial cache CMake file](https://cgold.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/variables/cache.html#initial-cache)
and pass to CMake using the -C option. An example of this is the [`examples/robotology-additional-dependencies-64.cmake`](examples/robotology-additional-dependencies-64.cmake), 
that is used to generate the robotology-additional-dependencies installers, that are available at https://github.com/robotology-playground/robotology-additional-dependencies . 

## Enviroment variables handling 
When installing a set of libraries, it is often convenient to give the user the option to automatically 
modify its own [user enviroment variables](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/system-user-environment-variables-windows). 
`vcpkg-cpack` provide this support by adding to `IFW`-generated installers an `update_env_variables_${triplet_comp}` component 
that optionally modifies the `PATH` and `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` to find the installed libraries. Note that this may not be 
sufficient for port that installs program, such as `protobuf`. Support for more envromental variables will be added in the future. 

The changes in the enviromental variables is properly reverted during the uninstallation.

Commit message:

Switch to support an internal vcpkg
The rationale is that for Continuous Integration, it is more convenient to just
use a dedicated vcpkg installation handled by the CMake project itself.

README.md, after:

# vcpkg-cpack

Generator of binary installers using [CPack](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.12/module/CPack.html) for libraries built by [vcpkg](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg),  alpha version, may still contain bugs. 

Note that it is possible to created binary installer using the [export option](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/vcpkg#export_binaries_per_project) of vcpkg, but using CPack 
gives more freedom in customizing the installer, such as adding pre and post install scripts. 

## Usage
This repo contains a CMake project that downloads an internal copy of `vcpkg`, that be configured to generated arbitrary installers.  

In particular one can set the following CMake variables to customize the behaviour of the generated installer. 

The following variables are vcpkg-cpack specific: 

| CMake variable | Description         |  Default (if any) | 
|:--------------:|:-------------------:|:-------------------:|
| `VCPKG_GIT_REPOSITORY` | vcpkg git repository. | https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git | 
| `VCPKG_GIT_TAG`        | vcpkg tag/commit to use. | `2019.08` | 
| `VCPKG_CPACK_TARGET_PORTS` | CMake list (;-separated string) of vcpkg ports to include in the installer. | |
| `VCPKG_CPACK_TARGET_TRIPLETS` |  CMake list (;-separated string) of vcpkg triplets to include in the installer. | |
| `VCPKG_CPACK_IFW_CREATE_ONLINE_INSTALLER` | If using the IFW generator, create an online installer (note: experimental option). | `OFF` |

The other variables are common CPack variables, including:
 
| CMake variable | Default (if any) | 
|:--------------:|:--------------:|
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_NAME` | vcpkg-cpack-generated-installer |
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VENDOR` | vcpkg-cpack Vendor | 
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_DESCRIPTION_SUMMARY` | vcpkg-cpack Description Summary |
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_MAJOR` |  |
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_MINOR` |  |
| `CPACK_PACKAGE_VERSION_PATCH` |  |
| `CPACK_GENERATOR` | IFW;ZIP | 

For a complete list and description of CPack options, check https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.5/module/CPack.html . 
Note that at the moment only the `IFW` and `ZIP` have been tested. 

For reproducibility, it is often convenient to store all this option in a [initial cache CMake file](https://cgold.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/variables/cache.html#initial-cache)
and pass to CMake using the -C option. An example of this is the [`examples/robotology-additional-dependencies-64.cmake`](examples/robotology-additional-dependencies-64.cmake), 
that is used to generate the robotology-additional-dependencies installers, that are available at https://github.com/robotology-playground/robotology-additional-dependencies . 

## Enviroment variables handling 
When installing a set of libraries, it is often convenient to give the user the option to automatically 
modify its own [user enviroment variables](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/system-user-environment-variables-windows). 
`vcpkg-cpack` provide this support by adding to `IFW`-generated installers an `update_env_variables_${triplet_comp}` component 
that optionally modifies the `PATH` and `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` to find the installed libraries. Note that this may not be 
sufficient for port that installs program, such as `protobuf`. Support for more envromental variables will be added in the future. 

The changes in the enviromental variables are properly reverted during the uninstallation.
